in this video we will review each trap highlight
its mechanism and figure out how to survive
and ultimately beat all the traps in saw six
the movie doesn't play around much
and starts right with the first trap
two victims Eddie and Simone are about to get
their skulls pierced with large machine screws
now for your information machine screws are
particularly wide in diameter and therefore
much more painful when piercing through a skull
in fact they would not simply just pierce the
skull but much more violently break through it.
In order to survive our two characters have
to slice off body parts and put them
on a wage they have one minute time
after the minute runs out the character
with the least weight on the wage will get
a migraine
now the first important note here is the timer
starts only when both victims pull the trigger
by standing up or bowing forward too much
Simone is the first character to wake up
and releases the machine however both need
to release the mechanism in order to start
the game she tries to convince her counterpart
not to move "don't lean forward" - next time
try screaming louder perhaps tell him
right off the bat that if he moves he
will die i promise you this will probably
do it the best chance here for survival is
clearly not to start the game by too much movement
if you delay the activation of the trap you
technically have infinite time available to fiddle
around with the headgear and find a way out of it
the knives could be used as tools to release
components and loosen the trap up a bit in any
way having time here is of importance 60 seconds
is just not enough time to come up with rational
ideas now at first i was a little confused as
to why none of the characters would place other
objects onto the wage other than sliced off belly
fat and arms but after looking at it a little
closer it wouldn't make a big difference perhaps
it would even cause you a potential disadvantage
basically there is no filter that prevents you
from putting anything you want onto the wage
that is true however by observing the room
we realize that there is pretty much nothing
available to shove down the tube everything seems
to be fixed the knives for instance are chained
quite securely onto the table so the only objects
possible to put through the tube would be your
clothes of which your shoes are probably the most
valuable item because of the related weight if you
choose to go this way however you must consider
that your opponent has the exact same option
and if his clothes are heavier than yours you're
automatically pressured into cutting off precious
body parts therefore it is a risky solution
if you really want to take the risk though
you would do well to shove down those
things only in the last few seconds
and pray that your opponent has less weight on
the wage than you in any way it is obvious that
the best way to beat this trap is definitely
not to start the game in the first place
we can do this like mentioned before by avoiding
too much movement and appropriate communication
now the second trap tries to screw over Mr.
William Easton who was placed there because
well like everyone else targeted by jigsaw
he's an a-hole the trap this time consists
of four tests he has to overcome now oddly
enough the first test also involves his
office janitor now don't ask me
why this poor man is involved
as if being a janitor isn't enough hardship
already anyway they both are attached to
a machine that crushes their torsos every
time to take a breath we can see that here
now this test is quite challenging to get out
of because being strapped on hands and feet
is a nasty way to immobilize someone
unless this person has asked you to
then i guess it can be sexy
you kinky bastards
well anyways unfortunately none of our
characters asked for sexy time and there
is no other way to beat this trap than beating
your opponent meaning someone must and will die
however there are several things you
can do to stretch out your given time
and thus gain an advantage over your opponent
the simplest way to do that is twist your torso
at the end just before Mr. Easton gets released
we can see that the strap is loose enough for some
range of motion i assure you even just a small
twist will give you a significant advantage and
time bonus because you minimize the pressure on
both sides in shifting the angle from where the
machine is closing in while this strategy can
make a big difference it won't instantaneously
save your life for a sure victory you must control
your breath what i mean is the more and deeper
you breathe the faster you will get crushed so
naturally you want to avoid breathing as much as
you can and so the single most important thing
here is stay calm because the higher your heart
rate the more oxygen your body requires and the
more you end up breathing there are two techniques
i would recommend either you take the deepest
breath possible before crushing your body and
hold it most people are able to hold their breath
between 30 and 120 seconds if you don't smoke
which William doesn't you have a great chance of
winning against someone like the janitor who does
however that still seems to be a little
risky the other way and my personal
favorite would be controlled hyperventilation
it might appear counterintuitive since that also
increases your heart rate but you see controlled
hyperventilation is a tactic literally used by
free divers to diffuse their system of carbon
dioxide if applied correctly one can increase
the time of holding one's breath immensely which
would be very beneficial in our situation here the
average adult takes 8 to 16 breaths per minute
to hyperventilate you may double these numbers
professor MacGiven from the Neumann university has
found out after having done a classroom experiment
that after 30 seconds of hyperventilation the
average breath holding duration increased by
24 seconds which goes without saying is an
incredible improvement however i must add
here that hyperventilation to hold one's breath
can be very dangerous and should not be performed
when not being supervised especially underwater in
the case of Mr. Easton however we can assume that
this technique is less risky in comparison to the
trap and therefore could be very helpful indeed
after surviving the first test Mr. Easton makes
his way up to the next one and on the way there
we get some flashbacks and a quick
philosophy check by John Kramer -
"but you're not taking into consideration
the most important human element of all"
"which is what?"
"the will to live"
I kind of miss this guy even though he was a crazy
mother- he did have a solid charisma much other
than detective Hoffman i i just i can't stand
this guy in his lips man they're weird now this is
indeed a very unfortunate trap that leaves almost
no chance to save both victims however the glass
between the two victims and William is definitely
breakable the only question then remaining
how would you save those too "Wingardium Leviosa"
I don't think so
It seems like the only way possible
here is to break the glass,
climb into the trap and release both manually this
would only be possible by not activating the trap
which in any case is unlikely however this
would be the ideal solution here if you were
to activate the trap though and choose one of
the victims to die then the following happens
the victim close to death gets his hands
released and after around 10 seconds
gets pulled up the time window of 10 seconds
would allow you to break the glass, get into
the trap and push up the hanging person but you
wouldn't be able to prevent him getting pulled up
on his neck even if the victim pulls himself up on
the metal wire with his freed hands it is unlikely
he would be able to stay like this for extended
periods of time if you've ever pulled yourself up
on a rope you know how tiring it is and in this
situation i imagine the stamina is pretty low
William also doesn't seem to have any
tools available to rescue that person
he would at least need a ladder or
something similar for a successful rescue
therefore he would have done well inspecting
the trap first before pulling the triggers
and conclude not to activate it
all together still no easy feat but
nonetheless possible since sound can travel
through the glass window and therefore it
would have been possible to realize what
this trap is about without activating it
on to the next one trap four i want to
talk first and foremost about this yes
there is no doubt that direct sunlight is
shining through the metal grid in front
of it looks very unstable and with
the tools available in this chamber
it is very likely that one can escape from here
but the big problem really here are the detonators
attached on both wrists of William meaning you
must play the games until the very end unless
you find a way to get them off but then again
fiddling with them may cause them to explode
i wouldn't recommend it however in this
test Mr. Easton was supposed to guide Debbie
his former lawyer through the maze from above he
was supposed to assist her with re-channeling this
steam by activating the switching devices the
catch here is that the hot steam is aimed at
himself every time he activates a switch which
goes without saying is very painful however if
you have watched my last videos you will know
that i'm a big fan of using clothes as tools
the first switch he could have easily pushed
over with his shoes the heel side to be precise
as it's the least elastic part of the shoe
and therefore most useful for such tasks
or if you're the boring type reach over with
your leg push it over with you know your feet
and there you go can be done like this too but i'm
not a fan of it the second switch was yeah well
shakes my head in disbelief this guy literally
stretched himself over the railing like a crane
to activate the switch and caused a huge upward
stream of boiling hot air to blow right into his
face definitely unpleasant but really you don't
need to bend over the railing here there was by
far enough space underneath to grab the switch
here which would have caused the stream of hot air
to blow over your head instead but anyway Debbie
eventually makes it through the maze and finds
a circular saw at the end of the maze the key to
release a trap strapped onto her chest lies deep
in Mr. Easton's body she attempts to kill him but
fails miserably i found it a seriously dumb move
because the trap that was about to kill her
was only strapped onto her with leather belts
meaning they could have easily been
cut through with the circular saw
in this trap six of Williams subordinates
are chained to a spinning carousel
the carousel stops randomly while the mounted
shotgun is pointing at it the shotgun is loaded
with six rounds and would therefore kill each one
of them however William would be able to save two
of them by pushing down two buttons at the same
time by using the machinery next spy the catch
well every time he pushes down the buttons
a metal bolt would pierce his hand i mean at
this point i was convinced that the scriptwriter
must have graduated in mechanical engineering
there are two main questions
i would like to answer here
first how William could have saved two people
without the need of going through this nasty pain
and secondly how there is potential
to save more than just two people
in this picture we see that the opening of
the machinery can fit two hands allowing
you to push down two buttons at the same time
without the need of piercing your own hand easy
the tricky part here is to save everyone first
and foremost the time is the main problem here
there are about 40 seconds between each triggered
shot with the method of before William can save
two people giving a window of roughly 120
seconds before the first person gets killed
if my math is correct then that would mean 120
seconds to save everyone 160 seconds to save five
200 for four survivors and 240 seconds for three
while 120 seconds is probably too confident here
i think 240 could be enough to save at least three
of the victims how would i do it let me explain
around the carousel are ceiling high metal bars
which deny access however attached to the bars
behind the shotgun there is a 4 square meter or 43
square feet metal grit protecting the shotgun of
possible manipulation meaning jigsaw knew that the
distance between each bar is wide enough to allow
someone to reach through giving the potential
to fiddle around with the mounted gun could that
mean he was scared that the device would not
withhold strong interference pulls and pushes
possibly that means if you can quickly tie
a lasso or loop with your closes necktie
belts and the cables lying around in this room
you would have had a chance to swing it around
the shotgun and pull it out of alignment because
have a look here we can clearly see that there
is no further metal grid denying axis the same
way like behind the gun so this is the opening
where you should try to swing your lasso through
and around the gun and basically save them all
in the final trip William realizes that
it's not him who ultimately decides if
he shall remain alive but Tara and Brent the
family members of Harold Abbott a guy William
quite literally killed by denying him insurance
cover in the other cage is Pamela Williams sister
i guess her only purpose there is to enjoy the
show not the switching device mounted on the wall
in tara and brad's cave turns out to be the device
that decides if William shall remain alive or not
if the switch is pulled to the death side a
mechanism will activate that injects hydrophloric
acid directly into his body everyone who has
watched breaking bad or didn't fall asleep
in chemistry class like i did should know that you
want to generally avoid any contact with that acid
yep exactly hydrofluoric acid burns literally
through anything except plastic "I''m sorry
what were you asking me, oh yes, that
stupid plastic container i asked you to
buy" - special thanks to Mr. White here while
terra is not able to pull the switch Brent
well he doesn't seem to have an issue with it
William's evasion rate seems to be underpowered
too definitely should have invested more skill
points into that attribute that needle trap could
have been dodged with a nice duck and subsequent
jiu jitsu roll and the acid could have been used
to burn through their cages just soak your clothes
in it and throw it onto the grid this has to be
done quickly though for obvious reasons by the
way the smoke or haze that arises from Williams
burning is highly toxic all of our remaining
characters could be soon dead too just saying
but anyway let's move on to the bonus the
maestro himself jesus that was so fun to
watch because this is literally how you
beat the traps like a god does all right
at last detective Hoffman himself gets trapped
into one of his own traps the probably most
famous of all saw traps the "jaw splitter" but
he doesn't sound very long he breaks his hand
escapes both arm straps and attempts to
release the child splitter from his head
without success though however he succeed in
evading the trap in the most creative way possible
show them Hoffman.
i could have not done it better what a great
example on how to be the traps in saw six if
you have made it this far you're awesome leave a
like and subscribe and i see you guys next time